# View the details of a tenant

On the details page of a tenant, you can delete the tenant, add a replica, change the password, lock the tenant, and copy the tenant. You can also view the basic information of the tenant, view replica details, and modify zone priorities and the allowlist.

OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) allows you to create associated primary and standby tenants in different clusters. Take note of the following considerations on the primary and standby tenants:

* If you modify the tenant configurations, the modification may affect the synchronization efficiency between the primary and standby tenants and the tenant performance. In this case, we recommend that you configure the same settings for the primary and standby tenants.
* If <b>network-based</b> synchronization is used between the primary and standby tenants and archiving is not enabled for the primary tenant, REDO logs of the primary tenant may be overwritten before being synchronized to the standby tenant. In this case, we recommend that you enable log archiving for the primary tenant.

## View basic information

You can view basic tenant information in the following fields: **Tenant Name**, **Tenant ID**, **Cluster**, **OceanBase Version**, **Tenant Mode**, **Character Set**, **Collation**, **Locality**, **OBProxy/Connection String**, **Binlog Service**, **Tag**, **Lock**, **Created At**, **Remarks**, and **Arbitration Service**.

* You can click the name of the cluster to go to its details page. For more information, see [View the details of a cluster](../../600.cluster-functions/300.manage-a-cluster/200.overview-of-the-cluster-details-page.md).

* You can click the **Copy** icon next to the name of a tenant to copy its name.

* You can **View** next to **OBProxy/Connection String**, and copy the connection string in the dialog box that appears.

  * Connection String: The connection string can be obtained when the cluster of the tenant is associated with the OBProxy.

  * You can associate the cluster with the OBProxy through direct connection. Here is an example:

    ```sql
    obclient -Pxxx.xxx.xxx.xxx0 -u<Username>@<Tenant name#Cluster name> -P2883 -p****** -c -A sys
    ```

* You can click **Add Service Name** to add a service name. The service name must start with a letter and can contain letters, digits, and underscores (_). It must be 2 to 64 characters in length. You can also edit or delete the added service name in the **Actions** drop-down list. You can select the **Sync Service Names of Primary and Standby Tenants** option for the primary and standby tenants.

     <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>
      We recommend that you set the same service name for the primary and standby tenants, and that the clusters to which the primary and standby tenants belong be associated with the same OBProxy cluster. This way, your application can implement automatic routing after a switchover.
      </p></main>

* You can enable the binlog service for a tenant. For more information, see [Manage the binlog service for a tenant](700.manage-binlog-service-of-a-tenant.md).

* You can hover the pointer over the **Tag** field to view all tags of the tenant. You can click the **Edit** icon to manage the tags. For more information, see [Manage tags](../../1600.system-management-features/300.manage-tags/100.tags-overview.md).

* You can click the icon next to **Remarks** to modify the description.

* You can click the icon next to **Arbitration Service** to enable or disable the arbitration service.

* You can perform other management operations on the tenant. For more information, see [Delete a tenant](../600.manage-a-tenant/400.delete-a-tenant.md), [Add a replica](../1000.manage-tenant-replica/200.create-a-replica.md), [Change the password of the sys tenant](../600.manage-a-tenant/500.change-the-sysy-tenant-password.md), [Lock a tenant](../600.manage-a-tenant/300.locked-a-tenant.md), [Copy a tenant](../600.manage-a-tenant/200.replication-a-tenant.md), and [Configure full-link tracking for a tenant](600.full-link-diagnostic-configuration-of-tenant.md).

## View replica details

You can view the zone names, replica types, unit specifications, and number of units, and modify or delete a replica. For more information, see [Edit a tenant replica in a zone](../1000.manage-tenant-replica/300.edit-a-replica-of-a-tenant-in-a-private-zone.md) and [Delete a tenant replica from a zone](../1000.manage-tenant-replica/400.delete-a-replica-of-a-tenant-in-a-private-zone.md).

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p><li>If the cluster version is earlier than OceanBase Database V4.0, the log disk space and IOPS information is not displayed in the <b>Unit Specification</b> column. </li><li>If the cluster version is OceanBase Database V4.0 or later and you do not specify the log disk space and IOPS information when you <a href="../400.manage-unit-specification.md">add unit specifications</a>, the log disk space and IOPS information is not displayed in the <b>Unit Specification</b> column. </li></p>
</main>

## View the zone priorities

You can view or modify the distribution priorities of partition leaders in the tenant. For more information, see [Modify zone priorities](../800.modify-a-zone-priority.md).

## View the allowlist

You can view or modify the IP addresses that can connect to the tenant. For more information, see [Modify the allowlist of a tenant](../700.modify-the-whitelist.md).

## Perform tenant management operations

You can perform routine tenant management operations by using the options in the left-side navigation pane. For more information, see [View the topology of a tenant](../900.manage-tenant-topulogy/100.view-the-tenant-topology.md), [Manage databases](../1100.database-management.md), [Manage users in a MySQL tenant](../1200.manage-users-and-permissions-under-tenants/100.user-management-under-a-mysql-tenant.md), [Manage user under an Oracle tenant](../1200.manage-users-and-permissions-under-tenants/200.user-management-under-an-oracle-tenant/100.oracle-tenant-user-management.md), [View the performance and SQL monitoring data of a tenant](../../880.manage-performance-monitoring/100.performance-monitoring-overview/400.view-tenant-performance-and-sql.md), [View transaction performance data](../../880.manage-performance-monitoring/100.performance-monitoring-overview/500.view-transaction-performance.md), [View storage and cache monitoring data](../../880.manage-performance-monitoring/100.performance-monitoring-overview/600.view-storage-and-cache-performance.md), [Manage resources of a tenant](../500.ocp-resource-unit-specifications.md), [View SQL diagnostics information](../../1000.diagnosis-and-tuning-fuctions/100.manage-sql-diagnosis/300.suspicious-sql-diagnostics.md), [View transaction diagnostics information](../../1000.diagnosis-and-tuning-fuctions/200.manage-transaction-diagnostics/200.view-transaction-diagnosis.md), [Manage major compaction under a tenant](../1400.manage-tenant-merge/200.details-of-tenant-major-compaction.md), [Backup and recovery](../../1100.backup-and-restoration-functions/400.backup-now/200.back-up-tenant-now.md), [Manage tenant parameter templates](../1500.manage-tenant-parameter-templates.md), and [Manage tenant parameters](../1600.manage-tenant-parameters/100.view-the-tenant-parameter.md).
