# Manage the binlog service for a tenant

The binlog service collects transaction logs of OceanBase Database and converts them into MySQL binlogs. You can enable or disable the binlog service, modify binlog service configurations, and delete the binlog service for a tenant.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Applicability</h4>
<p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Enterprise Edition. OCP Community Edition does not support this feature. </p>
</main>

## Prerequisites

* The tenant for which the binlog service is to be enabled is in the **Running** state.
* The version of the cluster to which the tenant belongs is V3.2.4.4 or later, or V4.1.0.2 or later.

## Enable the binlog service

1. Log on to the OCP console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, select **Tenants**. The **Tenants** tab automatically appears.

3. On the **Tenants** tab, find the target tenant and click its name to go to the **Overview** page of the tenant.

4. In the **Basic Information** section, click **Activate** next to **Binlog Service**.

5. In the dialog box that appears, specify the following parameters.

    | Parameter | Description |
    |------|-------|
    | Associate Binlog Cluster | Select a binlog cluster to be associated with the tenant. You can select only a running binlog cluster.  |
    | Associate OBProxy Cluster | Select an OBProxy cluster that has been associated with the tenant. The version of OBProxy must be V4.2.1.0 or later.  |
    | Retention Duration (Hour) | The retention period of binlogs of the tenant. Expired log files will be automatically deleted. The value is an integer ranging from 1 to 8760. |
    | Maximum Disk Space (GiB) | The maximum size of disk space for binlogs of the tenant. Log files generated after the specified value is reached will be automatically deleted. The value is an integer ranging from 1 to 102400. |

## Other operations

After you enable the binlog service for a tenant, you can perform other operations on the binlog service as needed. For example, you can modify binlog service configurations, view binlog instances, and disable the binlog service.

* Choose **Actions** > **Modify Binlog Configuration** next to **Binlog Service**. You can modify the **Associate OBProxy Cluster**, **Retention Duration (Hour)**, and **Maximum Disk Space (GB)** parameters.
* Choose **Actions** > **View Binlog Instances** next to **Binlog Service**. On the **Binlog Instance Overview** page, you can view details about binlog instances. For more information, see [View a binlog instance](../../820.binlog-service-fuctions/300.manage-a-binlog-cluster/500.manage-binlog-instance/100.binlog-instance-overview.md).
* You can choose **Actions** > **Disable Binlog Service** next to **Binlog Service** to disable the binlog service. After the binlog service is disabled, all generated binlog files are deleted to release the storage space.
