# ocp_contingency_failed

## Description

OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) V4.2.0 provides alert clearance plans. After an alert is triggered, an alert clearance plan is automatically generated. After you confirm the plan, the plan is automatically executed. This alert is triggered when the plan execution fails. 

## Principle

| Parameter | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Metric | None |
| Source | None |
| Collected metric | None |
| Metric expression | None |
| Collection cycle | None |

## Alert rule

| Metric expression | Metric description | Default threshold | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| None | None | None | None | 5 minutes |

## Alert information

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Based on the expression of the metric | Warning | Service |

## Alert templates

* Overview

   * Template: \${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}
   * Example: alarm_template_id=0:contingency_plan_name=observer_process_crashed:contingency_plan_id=415. The execution of the alert clearance plan failed.

* Details

   * Template: The execution of the alert clearance plan \${contingency_plan_name} \${contingency_plan_id} failed. Parameters: params: \${contingency_plan_params}.
   * Example: The execution of the alert clearance plan observer_process_crashed 415 failed. Parameters: params: {svr_ip=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx}.

## Impact on the system

The execution of an alert clearance plan is triggered only when a system issue occurs. If the plan execution fails, you need to pay more attention to the impact of the system issue before you retry the alert clearance plan.
An alert clearance plan also indicates an error of an O&M action, such as a system scale-out or configuration modification. If the plan execution fails due to system factors, you must roll back the plan. 

## Possible causes

Issues related to the resources and system environment required for the plan execution, for example:

* A scaling failure due to insufficient resources. 
* A runtime error, such as a timeout error. 

## Solutions

1. Retry the alert clearance plan. Make sure that the plan is executed to solve the original issue. For more information, see [Execute the alert clearance plan](../500.appendix/400.execute-the-plan.md). 
2. Roll back the alert clearance plan. You can contact OceanBase Technical Support for assistance. 
