# host_agent_version_not_same

## Description

The RPM package of OCP-Agent that matches the current OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) version is built in the Docker container of OCP. When you deploy OCP, the version of OCP-Agent installed on the managed host must be consistent with the built-in version. If they are inconsistent, this alert is generated.
The version number of OCP consists of three digits, such as 4.2.1. The version number will be followed by an 8-digit build number. By default, only the 3-digit version number is checked. To check the 8-digit build number, set `ocp.build.version.check` to `true`.

## Alert parameters

| Parameter | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Metric | None |
| Source | None |
| Collected metric | None |
| Metric expression | None |
| Collection cycle | None |

## Alert rule

| Metric expression | Metric description | Default threshold | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| None | None | None | 60 seconds | 5 minutes |

## Alert information

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Based on the expression of the metric | Critical | Host |

## Alert templates

* Overview

  * Template: ${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}
  * Sample: alarm_template_id=0:host=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx host_agent_version_not_same

* Details

  * Template: Cluster: ${ob_cluster_name}. Host: ${host}. Alert: ${alarm_name} Expected OCP-Agent version: ${ocp_agent_version_full}. Host OCP-Agent version: ${ocp_agent_version}
  * Sample: Test. Host: xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx. Alert: host_agent_version_not_same Expected OCP-Agent version: 4.2.1-20230928. Host OCP-Agent version: 4.2.0-20230921

## Impact on the system

OCP-Agent is a process deployed on a host that is taken over by OCP. It comprises a management (O&M) process and a monitoring process. If the version of OCP-Agent is inconsistent with that of OCP-Server, the following issues will be caused:

1. O&M operations, such as routine O&M operations on OceanBase Database, OceanBase Proxy (OBProxy), and hosts, cannot be performed.
2. Monitoring data of the later version cannot be collected.

## Possible causes

* OCP-Agent fails to be upgraded due to some causes, but OCP-Server is successfully upgraded.
* OCP-Agent of an earlier version is installed on the host.

## Solutions

Install OCP-Agent of the same version as OCP-Server. We recommend that you install OCP-Agent and OCP-Server to the same BP version. Select the built-in version on OCP-Server to install OCP-Agent again.
