# View plan execution details

This topic describes how to view the detailed execution information about a plan.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Applicability</h4>
<p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Enterprise Edition. OCP Community Edition does not support this feature. </p>
</main>

## Prerequisites

You have been granted the ADMIN role.

## Execute a plan

For a plan for which the automatic execution is disabled, you can perform the following steps to manually execute it when the corresponding event occurs: 

1. Log on to the OCP console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, choose **O&M Management > Plan Management**. The **Plans** tab automatically appears.

3. Find the target plan and click **Execute** in the **Actions** column.

4. In the panel that appears, click **OK**.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Notice</h4>
<p>View the operations to be performed by the plan to avoid causing other issues. </p>
</main>

## View a plan execution task

You can perform the following steps to view the execution details of a plan that is in the **Executing**, **Failed**, or **Completed** state: 

1. Log on to the OCP console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, choose **O&M Management > Plan Management**. The **Plans** tab automatically appears.

3. Find the target plan and click **View Task** in the **Actions** column.

4. The alert details page corresponding to the plan event appears, where you can view the execution information about the plan. For more information, see [Execute the alert clearance plan](../../1900.reference-guide/100.alarm-reference/500.appendix/400.execute-the-plan.md).

## View SQL information

For an SQL-related plan, you can perform the following steps to view the SQL information about the corresponding event if the plan is in the **Pending**, **Executing**, **Failed**, or **Completed** state.

1. Log on to the OCP console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, choose **O&M Management > Plan Management**. The **Plans** tab automatically appears.

3. Find the target plan and click **View SQL** in the **Actions** column.

4. The SQL details page appears. For more information, see [View details of an SQL statement](../../1000.diagnosis-and-tuning-fuctions/100.manage-sql-diagnosis/1000.view-sql-details.md).
