# Start and stop a binlog server

This topic describes how to stop and start a binlog server.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Applicability</h4>
<p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Enterprise Edition. OCP Community Edition does not support this feature. </p>
</main>

## Prerequisites

* You have the permissions of the ADMIN user.
* Both the binlog server to be stopped and the binlog cluster to which the binlog server belongs are in the **Running** state.
* The binlog server to be started is in the **Stopped** state and the binlog cluster to which the binlog server belongs is in the **Running** or **Stopped** state.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the OCP console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Binlog Service**. The **Cluster List** tab automatically appears.

3. On the **Cluster List** page, find the target binlog cluster and click its name to go to the **Binlog Cluster Overview** page.

4. In the **Binlog Server List** section, select the binlog server to be stopped and click **Stop** in the **Actions** column.

5. In the dialog box that appears, click **Stop**.

   You can view the task progress in **Task Center**. When the task enters the **ExecuteSuccessful** state and the status of the corresponding binlog node is displayed as **Stopped** in the **Binlog Server List** section, the task succeeds.

6. Start the binlog server.

   After the binlog server is stopped, you can click **Start** in the **Actions** column of the binlog server in **Binlog Server List** to start the binlog server.
