# Delete a binlog server

This topic describes how to delete a binlog server from a binlog cluster.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Applicability</h4>
<p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Enterprise Edition. OCP Community Edition does not support this feature. </p>
</main>

## Prerequisites

* You have the permissions of the ADMIN user.
* The cluster to which the binlog server to be deleted belongs is in the **Running** or **Stopped** state.
* To delete the only binlog server from a binlog cluster, you need to delete the binlog cluster.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the OCP console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Binlog Service**. The **Cluster List** tab automatically appears.

3. On the **Cluster List** page, find the target binlog cluster and click its name to go to the **Binlog Cluster Overview** page.

4. In the **Binlog Server List** section, select the binlog server to be deleted and click **Delete** in the **Actions** column.

5. In the dialog box that appears, enter **delete** and then click **Delete**.

   You can view the task progress in **Task Center**. When the task enters the **ExecuteSuccessful** state and the binlog server no longer exists in the **Binlog Server List** section, the binlog server is successfully deleted.

## Related operations

After you delete a binlog server, you need to manually clear the binlog instances on the host as needed. For more information, see [Clear binlog instances on a host](400.clean-binlog-instance-on-a-host.md).
