|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# 10000 to 12000

These error codes indicate OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP), OB Sharding, OBKV, and client errors.

## ERROR 10500 (HY000): incorrect route for obkv global index, client router should refresh.

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10500

* Cause: The route for the OBKV global index is incorrect, and the client router needs to be refreshed.
* Solution: Check your client connection and routing information.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10501 (HY000): TTL feature is not enabled

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10501

* Cause: The time-to-live (TTL) feature is disabled.

* Solution: Make sure that the TTL feature is correctly enabled.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10502 (HY000): TTL column '%.*s' not exists

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10502

* Cause: The TTL column does not exist.

* Solution: Verify whether the specified TTL column exists in the database table.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10503 (HY000): Column type of '%.*s' is not supported for TTL definition

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10503

* Cause: The specified column type cannot be used in TTL definitions.

* Solution: Verify whether the specified column type is supported in TTL definitions.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10504 (HY000): TTL command is not allowed, current TTL status is '%s'

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10504

* Cause: The TTL command cannot be executed because the TTL feature is in a specific state.

* Solution: Verify whether the current TTL state is as expected and use a proper TTL command to switch the status.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10505 (HY000): No TTL task is running, please try trigger a new TTL task

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10505

* Cause: No TTL task is running. You must try to trigger a new TTL task.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10506 (HY000): Cannot execute TTL task during tenant is restore

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10506

* Cause: TTL tasks cannot be executed during tenant restore.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10507 (HY000): Time to live of hbase table must be greater than 0

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10507

* Cause: The TTL of an HBase table must be greater than 0.

* Solution: Check the `KV_ATTRIBUTES` attribute of the current table and make sure that the TTL defined for the table exceeds 0.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10508 (HY000): MaxVersions of hbase table must be greater than 0

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10508

* Cause: The `MaxVersions` value of an HBase table must be greater than 0.

* Solution: Check the `KV_ATTRIBUTES` attribute of the current table and make sure that the specified `MaxVersions` value exceeds 0.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10509 (HY000): Access denied, credential '%.*s' not match '%.*s'

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10509

* Cause: Access is denied because '%.*s' does not match '%.*s'.

* Solution: Enter the correct credentials. Make sure that the entered username and password are correct.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10510 (HY000): Rowkey column count not match, schema rowkey count is '%ld', input rowkey count is '%ld'

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10510

* Cause: The number of input row key columns is inconsistent with the actual number of row key columns in the database table.

* Solution: Make sure that the number of row key columns during operation is inconsistent with the actual number of row key columns in the table.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10511 (HY000): Column type for '%.*s' not match, schema column type is '%.*s', input column type is '%.*s'

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10511

* Cause: The input column type does not match the actual column type of the database table. As a result, an error may occur in data conversion or the operation may fail.

* Solution: Make sure that the input column type matches the actual column type of the table.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10512 (HY000): Collation type for '%.*s' not match, schema collation type is '%.*s', input collation type is '%.*s'

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10512

* Cause: The input collation does not match the collation of the table.

* Solution: Make sure that the input collation matches the collation of the table.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10513 (HY000): Scan range missing, input scan range cell count is '%ld', which should equal to rowkey count '%ld'

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10513

* Cause: The number of columns to scan does not match the number of primary key columns in the table.

* Solution: Make sure that the number of columns to scan matches the number of primary key columns in the table.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10515 (HY000): Redis protocol parse error, the input redis string is: '%.*s'

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10515

* Cause: A Redis parsing error occurred.

* Solution: Do not send a custom Redis command not supported by OceanBase Database, and make sure that the command format is correct.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.3.1. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10650 (HY000): ODP process timeout

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10650

* Cause: The ODP process timed out.

* Solution: Check for time-consuming operations and adjust the timeout period accordingly.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.3.0. </p>
</main>
