# Scale out an OBProxy cluster

This topic describes how to scale out an OBProxy cluster.

## Scenarios

Add more OBProxies to an OBProxy cluster to reduce the workload of existing OBProxies in the cluster. This improves the reliability of the cluster.

## Prerequisites

* You have added the hosts on which you want to deploy new OBProxies to OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) for management. For more information, see [Add a host](../850.host-features/200.add-a-host.md).
* The new hosts have netcat (`nc`) installed and do not run the obproxy process.

## Procedure

**Step 1: Add an OBProxy to an OBProxy cluster**

1. Log on to the OCP console.
2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **OBProxy**. On the page that appears, click the name of the target OBProxy cluster to go to its **Overview** page.
3. Click **Add OBProxy**. In the dialog box that appears, specify the information about the OBProxy.
4. Click **OK**.

**(Optional) Step 2: Switch the traffic**

* If your business applications access the OBProxy cluster by using **Alibaba Cloud Server Load Balancer (SLB)** or **OceanBase Load Balancer (OBLB)**, some of the business traffic is automatically switched to the new OBProxy after it becomes available for load balancing. You do not need to manually switch the business traffic.
* If your business applications use other load balancer instances, such as manually created **SLB** or **F5** instances, you must add the new OBProxy as a backend server of the instances. The business traffic is switched to the new OBProxy for load balancing after your modifications take effect.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p><li>For an OBProxy cluster of V4.0 or later, you can select a software package of V4.0.0 or later. </li><li>For an OBProxy cluster of V3.x or earlier, you can select a software package whose version is V1.8.0 or later but earlier than V4.0.0. </li><li>We recommend that the version and architecture of the new OBProxy be consistent with those of existing OBProxies to avoid unexpected errors. </li></p>
</main>
