# Decouple a standby tenant from the primary tenant

This topic describes how to decouple a standby tenant from the primary tenant.

## Scenarios

You can decouple a standby tenant from the primary tenant, making it an independent tenant that can provide services without needing to synchronize data from the original primary tenant.

## Prerequisites

* The current tenant is a standby tenant.
* The current tenant is available, and the cluster to which the tenant belongs is normal.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Tenants**. On the **Tenants** tab, select the target standby tenant.

3. On the page that appears, click the More icon in the upper-right corner and select **Decouple Primary and Standby Clusters** from the menu.

4. In the dialog box that appears, click **OK** to submit a decoupling task.

    After the task succeeds, the standby tenant is decoupled from the primary tenant. If an error occurs after you click **OK**, fix the error based on the error message and then submit a decoupling task again.

## FAQ

**What are the differences between failover and decoupling in OCP?**

* OCP performs the following additional checks in a [failover](1280.standby-tenant-switchover.md):

  1. Check whether the primary and standby tenants have been added to OCP for management.
  2. Check whether the primary tenant is unavailable. This check prevents the existence of two primary tenants after the failover, to avoid upper-layer business errors.

* When you decouple a standby tenant from the primary tenant, OCP assumes that the primary tenant is available and therefore does not perform additional checks.
