# Manage CPU core binding configurations

CPU core binding is a technology that binds a specific process or thread to a specific CPU core. This way, key tasks are processed by fixed CPU cores, instead of being frequently switched from one core to another. CPU core binding reduces the context switching overhead and improves the overall system performance.

However, excessive use of the technology may lead to a situation where some CPU cores are overloaded while others are idle, decreasing resource utilization in the system. You need to decide whether to use CPU core binding and adjust the core binding strategy based on your business conditions to achieve the optimal performance and resource utilization.

## Prerequisites

You have the permission to manage the target OBProxy cluster.

## Configure the CPU binding range

1. Log on to the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **OBProxy**.

3. In the cluster list, find the target OBProxy cluster and click its name.

4. On the **Overview** page of the cluster, click the **More** icon in the upper-right corner and select **CPU Core Binding Configuration**.

5. Click **Configure CPU Binding Range**.

6. In the dialog box that appears, complete CPU core binding configuration for all obproxy processes in the OBProxy cluster. Then, click **OK**.

7. Click the task ID in the dialog box to view the task progress. When the task status changes to **Completed** and the status of the cluster is **Running**, CPU core binding configuration for the cluster is successful.

## Enable or disable CPU core binding configuration

1. Log on to the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **OBProxy**. In the cluster list, find the target OBProxy cluster and click its name.

3. On the **Overview** page of the cluster, click the **More** icon in the upper-right corner and select **CPU Core Binding Configuration**.

4. Select the target CPU core binding configuration and enable or disable it.

5. In the dialog box that appears, click **OK**.
