# Overview

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Applicability</h4>
<p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Enterprise Edition. OCP Community Edition does not support the information collection feature. </p>
</main>

OceanBase Database is a native distributed database system. A database fault may be caused by a variety of factors such as server environment, parameters, and runtime load. Therefore, the process of collecting fault information for root cause analysis can be tedious, leading to inefficient troubleshooting, or even fault escalation if not handled promptly.

OCP provides the unified information collection feature for you to collect the key information and exception information within a specified time period to facilitate fault troubleshooting and O&M. When an alert event occurs, OCP collects the volatile runtime information in the system to facilitate fault management and custom troubleshooting.

OCP saves the metadata of each collection task, including the information collection record ID, object type, object name, collection range, collection start time and end time, status, event type, and event name. You can perform O&M operations on collection tasks.

* You can search for an information collection task by information collection record ID or object name.

* You can view information collection tasks in the **Running**, **Failed**, **Canceled**, and **Completed** states, and perform different operations based on the task status.

     * You can perform the **Cancel** operation on an information collection task in the **Running** state.

     * You can perform the **View** and **Download** operations on an information collection task in the **Completed** state.

## Procedure

The information collection procedure comprises four steps:

1. [Configure information collection items](200.configure-information-collection-items.md). An information collection item is a source that triggers information collection. You can disable unwanted built-in collection items.

2. [Create an information collection task](300.create-a-information-collection.md). You can manually initiate a collection task to promptly collect exception information about the specified object.

3. [View information collection details](400.view-information-collection.md). You can view the collected fault information, including the details, basic information about the collection object, alert summary, exception check for OceanBase Database, last changes, and internal events. You can locate the fault cause based on related information.

4. [Download an information collection report](500.manage-information-collection-reports.md). You can download an information collection report and view it on your local computer.

## Information collection list

| Parameter | Value | Description |
|--------|--------|--------|
| Information Collection Record ID | The unique identifier of the information collection task. | Fuzzy search is supported.  |
| Object Type | The type of the collection object. Valid values: **Cluster**, **Tenant**, **OBProxy**, and **Host**. | You can filter information collection tasks by object type.  |
| Object | The name of the collection object. It is in one-to-one correspondence with the object type. | Hosts are displayed based on the OceanBase cluster and OceanBase Proxy (OBProxy) dimensions.  |
| Collection Range | The time range within which the information of the event is collected. | After collection is triggered, the system collects information within the last 10 minutes by default. For a manually initiated information collection task, information within the specified collection range is collected.  |
| Collection Started/Ended At | The start time and end time of information collection. | - |
| Status | The status of the information collection task. Valid values: **Running**, **Failed**, **Canceled**, and **Completed**. | You can filter information collection tasks by status.  |
| Event Type | The type of the event that triggers information collection. | Valid values: **Alert** and **Manual Creation**. You can filter information collection tasks by event type.  |
| Event Name | The name of the event that triggers information collection. | Only events of the **Alert** type have names.  |
| Actions | Operations that you can perform on the information collection task. | You can cancel a running collection task, view a completed collection task, and download the report of a completed collection task.  |
