# View subscription connection monitoring charts

This topic describes how to view the monitoring data of subscription connections of a binlog instance.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Applicability</h4>
<p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Enterprise Edition. OCP Community Edition does not support this feature. </p>
</main>

## Prerequisites

You have the permissions of the ADMIN user.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the OCP console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Binlog Service**. The **Cluster List** tab automatically appears.

3. On the **Cluster List** page, find the target binlog cluster and click its name to go to the **Binlog Cluster Overview** page.

4. In the **Binlog Instance List** section, find the target binlog instance and click its name.

5. On the **Binlog Instance Overview** page, configure the monitoring time range in the **Subscription Connection List** section.

    By default, the monitoring data of the last 5 minutes is displayed. You can select **Last 5 Minutes**, **Last 10 Minutes**, **Last 20 Minutes**, **Last 30 Minutes**, **Last 3 Hour**, **Last 6 Hours**, **Last 12 Hours**, **Last 24 Hours**, or **Last 7 Days** from the **Monitoring time range** drop-down list to view monitoring data of the selected statistical period. You can also select **Custom Time** from the drop-down list and specify the start time and end time as needed.

6. Click the plus sign (**+**) on the left of the username to view the real-time monitoring charts of **Sending Delay**, **Associate RPS**, and **Network Traffic**.

   For more information about the monitoring metrics, see [Overview of metrics](../../1900.reference-guide/300.monitoring-indicator-reference/100.overview-of-metrics.md).
