# View resource monitoring data of a binlog instance

This topic describes how to view the resource monitoring data of a binlog instance.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Applicability</h4>
<p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Enterprise Edition. OCP Community Edition does not support this feature. </p>
</main>

## Prerequisites

You have the permissions of the ADMIN user.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the OCP console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Binlog Service**. The **Cluster List** tab automatically appears.

3. On the **Cluster List** page, find the target binlog cluster and click its name to go to the **Binlog Cluster Overview** page.

4. In the **Binlog Instance List** section, find the target binlog instance and click its name.

5. In the left-side navigation pane on the page that appears, click **Resource Monitoring**.

6. On the **Binlog Resource Monitoring** tab that automatically appears, view the resource monitoring data of the following metrics of the binlog instance: **CPU**, **memory used**, **memory**, **disk used**, **Binlog Disk Write Rate**, **disk ratio**, **FD count**, and **network bytes**.

   For more information about the monitoring metrics, see [Overview of metrics](../../1900.reference-guide/300.monitoring-indicator-reference/100.overview-of-metrics.md).

   The following features allow you to view and analyze the resource monitoring data on a trend chart.

   1. By default, the resource monitoring data of the last 1 hour is displayed. You can select **Last 5 Minutes**, **Last 10 Minutes**, **Last 20 Minutes**, **Last 30 Minutes**, **Last 3 Hour**, **Last 6 Hours**, **Last 12 Hours**, **Last 24 Hours**, or **Last 7 Days** from the **Monitoring time range** drop-down list to view monitoring data of the selected statistical period. You can also select **Custom Time** from the drop-down list and specify the start time and end time as needed.

   2. Enable **Auto Refresh**. The resource monitoring view refreshes every 5 seconds. You can view the resource monitoring data of the binlog instance.

   3. Hide the data of a submetric: To use this feature, click the icon of the submetric. The submetric will then turn gray and its data will be hidden from the trend chart.

   4. View detailed data of a specific point in time or a period of time: You can hover the pointer over a point in time on the trend chart to view the detailed data. You can also drag the pointer to select a period of time on the trend chart and have a zoomed-in view of data in this period of time. To resume the normal view, double-click the trend chart.

   5. Zoom in on the trend chart: To use this feature, click the zoom-in icon in the upper-right corner. The features indicated by ①, ③, and ④ in the preceding figure are also applicable to a zoomed-in chart.
