
|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Overview

This topic describes the error messages for Oracle tenants in OceanBase Database.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

Value ranges of error codes in OceanBase Database are as follows:

* [OBE-00000 to OBE-00999](200.obe-00000-to-obe-00999-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [OBE-01000 to OBE-01499](300.obe-01000-to-obe-01499-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [OBE-01500 to OBE-01999](400.obe-01500-to-obe-01999-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [OBE-02000 to OBE-04999](500.obe-02000-to-obe-04999-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [OBE-05000 to OBE-10000](600.obe-05000-to-obe-10000-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [OBE-10000 to OBE-19999](700.obe-10000-to-obe-19999-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [OBE-20000 to OBE-29999](800.obe-20000-to-obe-29999-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [OBE-30000 to OBE-49999](900.obe-30000-to-obe-49999-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [OBE-50000 to OBE-99999](1000.obe-50000-to-obe-99999-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [PLS-00000 to PLS-00999](/1100.pls-00000-to-pls-00999-of-oracle-mode.md)

Error messages indicated by the preceding error codes are compatible with those in Oracle databases. For more information about Oracle error messages, see <https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/21/errmg/>.

## Formats of error messages

For Oracle tenants in OceanBase Database, error messages are returned in the format of prefix+numeric code.

Like in an Oracle database, for an error that originates from the database, an error message prefixed with `OBE` is returned. For an error that originates from a stored procedure, an error message prefixed with `PLS` is returned.

The formats of error messages are as follows:

```unknow
OBE-<err_num>: <err_msg>
PLS-<err_num>: <err_msg>
```

The parameters are described as follows:

* `err_num`: the error code that is compatible with Oracle Database.

* `err_msg`: the error message.

## Variables in error messages

OceanBase Database integrates parameters into error messages to help you locate and fix errors. These parameters are displayed as percent signs (%).

Here is an example:

```unknow
OBE-00910: specified length too long for column '%s' (max = %d byte)
```

The preceding error message may appear as the following message:

```unknow
OBE-00910: specified length too long for column 'fruit' (max = 32767 byte)
```

## About OBE-00600

In Oracle databases, `OBE-00600` indicates an internal error, which is a Catchall internal error message for Oracle program exceptions. It indicates that the process encounters a low-level or unexpected error.

In Oracle tenants of OceanBase Database, for errors that are incompatible with Oracle databases, this error code is returned in the following format:

```unknow
OBE-00600: internal error code, arguments: %d, %s
```

Here, `%d` indicates an error code in OceanBase Database, and `%s` indicates the error message in OceanBase Database.
