# Delete a zone

This topic describes how to delete a zone from an OceanBase cluster. Deleting a zone will delete all OBServer nodes and data in the current zone and release the hosts. Proceed with caution.

## Background information

* A cluster with an even number of zones cannot meet the high availability requirements and has data security risks. We recommend that you adjust the configurations to ensure an odd number of zones or enable the arbitration service for the cluster or tenant.
* After you upgrade a cluster to span multiple hosts in a single zone, only the computing capabilities of the cluster are improved. The cluster does not support multi-replica high availability (HA) and applies only to a development or test environment.
* A cluster with only one host in a single zone contains only one replica and does not support multiple replicas or scaling. Data loss may occur when storage or hardware fails. We recommend that you regularly back up critical business systems or configure HA solutions, such as tenant-level primary/standby databases and multi-replica disaster recovery, to avoid single points of failure.

## Prerequisites

* You have the permission to delete the cluster.

* The target OceanBase cluster is managed in the current OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) cluster.

  Otherwise, you need to take over the OceanBase cluster to the current OCP cluster. For more information, see [Take over a cluster](../300.manage-a-cluster/400.take-over-a-cluster.md).
  
* Ensure that the zone to be deleted has no leader replica of the tenant. If yes, make sure that there are other available full-featured replicas of the tenant. Otherwise, the deletion of the zone will cause service interruption, which cannot be recovered.

* You cannot delete a zone for a **standalone centralized** database.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the OCP console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Clusters**. The **Clusters** tab automatically appears.

3. In the **Clusters** list on the page, find the target cluster and click its name.

4. In the **Zones** list, click **Delete** in the **Actions** column of the target zone.

   A dialog box appears, asking you to confirm whether to delete the zone.

5. In the dialog box that appears, click **Delete**.

   In the dialog box that appears, you can click **View Task** to view the progress of the deletion task. You can also view the task progress in **Task Center**.

   After the task status changes to **Completed** and the zone disappears from the zone list on the **Overview** page of the cluster, the zone is deleted.
