# tenant_memstore_percent_over_threshold

## Description

This alert is triggered when the memory usage of a tenant exceeds the threshold.

## Principle

The following table describes the key parameters that are involved in the monitoring and alerting logic.

| Parameter | Value |
|-------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Metric | ob_tenant_host_memstore_percent |
| Source | SQL: ```select /*+read_consistency(weak)*/ tenant_name, tenant_id, stat_id, value from v$sysstat, __all_tenant where stat_id IN (130001, 130004) and (con_id > 1000 or con_id = 1) and__all_tenant.tenant_id = v$sysstat.con_id;```</br>The value of the `value` field is used as the value of `sysstat_value`, and the values of other fields are used as labels. |
| Collected metric | sysstat_value |
| Metric expression | 100 \* sum(sysstat_value{metric_group="sysstat",stat_id="130001",@LABELS}) by (@GBLABELS) / sum(sysstat_value{metric_group="sysstat",stat_id="130004",@LABELS}) by (@GBLABELS) |
| Collection cycle | 1 second |

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <ul>
    <li>When the statistical event ID (<code>stat_id</code>) is <code>130001</code>, the total used memory space of the tenant is collected. </li>
    <li>When <code>stat_id</code> is <code>130004</code>, the maximum available memory space of the tenant is collected. </li>
    </ul>
  </main>

In the metric expression, the ratio of the sum of the values of the `value` field when `stat_id` is `130001` to the sum of the values of the `value` field when `stat_id` is `130004` is used as the memory usage of a tenant.

The value of the `ob_tenant_host_memstore_percent` metric indicates the memory usage of a tenant in the OceanBase cluster. When the memory usage exceeds the threshold, this alert is triggered. The default threshold is 85%.

## Alert rule

| Metric | Default threshold (unit: %) | Duration | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
|---------------------------------|------------|------|------|------|
| ob_tenant_host_memstore_percent | 85 | 0 seconds | 60 seconds | 5 minutes |

## Alert information

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
|------------|------|----|
| Based on the expression of the metric | Warning | Tenant |

## Alert templates

* Overview template: \${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

* Details template: Cluster: \${ob_cluster_name}. Alert: \${alarm_name}. The MemStore usage reaches \${value_shown}, which exceeds the threshold \${alarm_threshold}%.

* Overview example: ob_cluster=obcluster-1:tenant_name=tenant-1:svr_ip=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx. The memory usage of the OceanBase Database tenant exceeds the threshold.

* Details example: Cluster: obcluster-1. Alert: The memory usage of the OceanBase Database tenant exceeds the threshold. The MemStore usage reaches 86.0%, which exceeds the threshold 85.0%.

## Impact on the system

If the tenant memory is insufficient, SQL statement execution may be slowed down, and writes may fail.

## Possible causes

This problem is commonly found in cases where write requests sharply increase but only limited resources are available in the tenant.

## Solutions

1. Scale up the tenant memory. You can execute the alert clearance plan to handle the alerted issue. For more information, see [Execute the alert clearance plan](../500.appendix/400.execute-the-plan.md).

2. Throttle the concurrency of SQL statements or increase the memory size in the unit specification of the tenant based on the check result.

   1. Go to the **Performance Monitoring** page of this tenant in the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console, and then click the **Performance & SQL** tab.

   2. Select **Last 7 Days** for **Select Time**.

   3. View the curve chart of **MEMStore usage percent**.

      Check whether the memory usage at the time  when the alert was generated abnormally increases.


      * If the memory usage abnormally increases or regularly increases, accompanied by an alert indicating insufficient resources, bind a hint to write-type SQL statements of this tenant to limit the concurrency.

         For more information, see [Apply throttling to an OceanBase cluster](../500.appendix/200.limit-the-inbound-traffic-of-the-oceanbase-cluster.md).

      * If the memory usage normally fluctuates or regularly increases and resources are sufficient, increase the memory size in the unit specification of the tenant.

         For more information, see [Manage unit specifications](../../../700.tenant-functions/400.manage-unit-specification.md).
