# oas_anomaly_sql_from_sql_inspection_perf_degradation

## Description

This alert is triggered when a suspicious SQL statement with degraded performance is detected.

## Principle

| Parameter | Value |
| --------- | --------- |
| Metric | None |
| Source | None |
| Collected metric | None |
| Metric expression | None |
| Collection cycle | None |

## Alert rule

The CPU time of the SQL statement is longer than the average CPU time of the SQL statement in the last 1 hour or 24 hours. The alerting criteria are the same as the diagnostic criteria for the diagnostic result **Deteriorated performance** on the **Suspicious SQL** tab.

## Alert information

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
| --------- | --------- | ---------- |
| Based on monitored conditions | Warning | Tenant |

## Alert templates

Details

* Template:

  The execution performance of the SQL statement ${sql_id} in the ${db_name} database of the ${tenant_name} tenant of the ${ob_cluster_name} cluster has degraded during the period from ${start_time} to ${end_time}. The average CPU time is ${sql_cpu_time_ms} ms. The average response time is ${sql_elapsed_time_ms} ms. The baseline period is from ${baseline_start_time} to ${baseline_end_time}. During the baseline period, the average CPU time is ${sql_baseline_cpu_time_ms} ms, and the average response time is ${sql_baseline_elapsed_time_ms} ms. Recommended action: [Refresh Plan Cache].

* Example:

  Overview: alarm_template_id=0:ob_cluster=admin-4:tenant_name=s**:db_name=oceanbase:sql_id=C38F5CFF605DC65C6FFD9ED72026****:recommend_operations=FLUSHING_PLAN_CACHE. It is detected during the SQL inspection that the execution performance of the SQL statement has degraded.
  Period: 2023-09-08T14:24:17 to 2023-09-08T14:28:47
  Associated SQL statement: SQL ID: C38F5CFF605DC65C6FFD9ED72026****. Database: oceanbase. Tenant: s**.
  Hit rule: The execution performance degrades.
  Basic information of the SQL statement: The average CPU time is 1.78 ms. The average response time is 1.78 ms.
  Baseline period: 2023-09-08T14:04:17 to 2023-09-08T14:23:47
  Information about the baseline SQL statements: The average CPU time is 1.39 ms. The average response time is 1.39 ms.
  Recommended action: [Refresh Plan Cache].

## Impact on the system

The response time of the SQL statement and the consumption of system resources such as CPU resources are affected.

## Possible causes

* The SQL statement is poorly or frequently executed.
* The volume of business data increases or the leader role is switched.
* The SQL execution plan has changed.

## Troubleshooting method

* Refresh the plan cache. To do so, you can execute the alert clearance plan. For more information, see [Execute the alert clearance plan](../500.appendix/400.execute-the-plan.md).

* Optimize the SQL statement.

* If you want to ignore this alert, you can disable the alert push configuration or reduce the alert push frequency.

  * Disable the alert push configuration: Specify `"alarm":false` in the OCP system parameter `ocp.perf.sql-diag.performance-degradation-config`. If the parameter does not contain the `alarm` attribute, you can manually add it. Make sure that the modified parameter is in the JSON format.

  * Reduce the alert push frequency: Modify the `cpuTimeLimitUs` or `execPsLimit` attribute in the OCP system parameter `ocp.perf.sql-diag.performance-degradation-config`. If the parameter does not contain the attribute, you can manually add it. Make sure that the modified parameter is in the JSON format.

  For more information about the `ocp.perf.sql-diag.performance-degradation-config` parameter, see [Parameters related to SQL performance diagnostics](../../../1000.diagnosis-and-tuning-fuctions/100.manage-sql-diagnosis/1400.sql-performance-diagnosis-related-parameter-configuration.md).
