# os_observer_not_exist

## Description

This alert is triggered if the observer process on a monitored OBServer node does not exist. 

## Principle

| Parameter | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Metric | observer_process_exists |
| Source | This metric is a basic host monitoring metric. To check whether any observer process exists, </br>you can run `ps -ef\|grep -w observer\|grep -v grep\|wc -l` to return the number of observer processes in the system.  |
| Collected metric | process_exists |
| Metric expression | min(process_exists{name="observer",@LABELS}) by (@GBLABELS) |
| Collection cycle | 1 second |

## Alert rule

| Metric expression | Metric description | Default threshold | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| observer_process_exists == 0 | <li>`0`: The process does not exist.</li><li>`1`: The process exists.</li> | 0 | 10 seconds | 5 minutes |

## Alert information

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Based on the expression of the metric | Critical | Server |

## Alert templates

* Overview
   * Template: \${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}
   * Example: ob_cluster=obcluster-1631964370:svr_ip=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx. The observer process does not exist.
* Details
   * Template: Cluster: \${ob_cluster_name}. Host: ${host}. Alert: The observer process does not exist. 
   * Example: Cluster: obcluster-1. Host: xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx. Alert: The observer process does not exist. 

## Impact on the system

* For a single-replica system, system services will be unavailable if the observer process does not exist. 
* For a multi-replica OceanBase cluster, the availability of the cluster may be compromised if the observer process on an OBServer does not exist. For example, the number of zones changes from 3 to 2, or the number of Internet Data Centers (IDCs) in the same region changes from 3 to 2. 

## Possible causes

The OBServer node is unexpectedly restarted. For example, the observer process is killed when the system resources are insufficient. 

## Solutions

1. Reload the observer process when it unexpectedly exits. You can execute the alert clearance plan to handle the alerted issue. For more information, see [Execute the alert clearance plan](../500.appendix/400.execute-the-plan.md). 

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
     <h4>Notice</h4>
     <p>You can reload the observer process only once within 12 hours since the event occurs. </p>
   </main>

2. Check whether the basic monitoring metrics of the host, such as the memory usage, CPU utilization, load, and disk usage, are as expected. 

3. Check whether a large number of ERROR log records exist in the runtime log of the OBServer node.

   ```yaml
   tail -10000 /home/admin/oceanbase/log/observer.log.wf | grep ERROR | wc -l
   ```

   If yes, contact OceanBase Technical Support. 

4. Check the OS logs. Search for the keyword "error" in the `/var/log/messages` log file and check the returned information.