# ob_tenant_partition_leader_absent

## Description

In OceanBase Database earlier than V4.0.0, the time consumed for an election without a leader is closely related to the number of partitions. Therefore, the number of partitions on a single OBServer node must be monitored. If a partition of a partitioned table in a tenant is leaderless, this partitioned table is unavailable until the election without a leader is completed on the partition. 

This alert is triggered when the number of leaderless partitions in a tenant exceeds the threshold. 

## Principle

| Parameter | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Metric | ob_tenant_partition_leader_absent |
| Source | Query virtual tables. Query statement: `SELECT /*+ MONITOR_AGENT QUERY_TIMEOUT(20000000) */ tenant.tenant_id, tenant.tenant_name, IFNULL(stat.cnt, 0) cnt FROM __all_tenant tenant LEFT JOIN (SELECT /*+QUERY_TIMEOUT(20000000)*/ tenant.tenant_id, count(distinct a.table_id,a.partition_id) cnt FROM __all_tenant tenant JOIN __all_virtual_meta_table a ON a.tenant_id=tenant.tenant_id LEFT JOIN __all_virtual_meta_table b ON a.table_id=b.table_id AND a.partition_id=b.partition_id AND b.role=1 WHERE b.tenant_id IS NULL GROUP BY tenant.tenant_id) stat ON stat.tenant_id=tenant.tenant_id`. |
| Collected metric | partition_leader_absent_count |
| Metric expression | max(partition_leader_absent_count{}) by (ob_cluster_name,ob_cluster_id,tenant_name,ob_tenant_id) |
| Collection cycle | 60 seconds |

## Alert rule

| Metric expression | Metric description | Default threshold | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| tenant_partition_leader_absent_count > 100 | The number of leaderless partitions in the tenant | 0 | 20 seconds | 5 minutes |

## Alert information

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Metric expression | Critical | Tenant |

## Alert templates

* Overview

   * Template: ${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}
   * Example: alarm_template_id=0:ob_cluster=TEST-1:tenant_name=t1. Partitions in the OceanBase Database tenant lack replicas.

* Details

   * Template: Cluster: ${ob_cluster_name}. Tenant: ${tenant_name}. Alert: ${alarm_name}. 
   * Example: Cluster: TEST. Tenant: t1. Alert: Partitions in the OceanBase Database tenant lack replicas..

## Impact on the system

* If the __all_core_table table of the sys tenant is leaderless, you cannot restart or log on to the OBServer nodes. 
* The location cache does not refresh after a read-only replica is switched as the leader replica. SQL requests and transactions return the error 4038 and time out. 

## Possible causes

* The memory usage of MemStore exceeds the threshold. If the memory usage of MemStore exceeds the threshold, clogs cannot be replayed, which blocks the clog reconfirmation. As a result, the `__all_core_table` table remains leaderless. 
* The election fails due to a great clock offset. In OceanBase Database V4.x, a clock offset greater than 2 seconds causes an election failure. 
* . The partition replicas in the tenant are not in the majority due to exceptions of OBServer nodes, which results in an election failure. 
* The takeover of the clog leader times out. For more information, see [Lack of a leader due to clog leader takeover timeout](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-1000000000207763). 
* Other reasons. For more information, see [Information about leaderless partitions in the OBServer log](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-1000000000207762). 

## Suggested solutions

1. Increase the value of the memstore_limit_percentage parameter, which specifies the maximum memory usage of MemStore. 
2. Correct the clock offset. For more information, see [Configure the clock source](https://www.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-cn-1000000000220855). 
3. Contact OceanBase Technical Support. 
