# obproxy_core_dump

## Description

This alert is triggered when a core dump of the obproxy process occurs. This alert is automatically cleared 20 minutes later. 

## Principle

| Parameter | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Metric | tenant500_storage_short_meta_hold_percentage,tenant500_storage_short_meta_hold_gb |
| Source | Query OceanBase Database virtual tables.<ul><li>Statement for querying the memory usage of the STORAGE_SHORT_TERM module of the sys500 tenant: <code>select /*+ MONITOR_AGENT READ_CONSISTENCY(WEAK) */ sum(hold) as hold from __all_virtual_memory_info where tenant_id = 500 and svr_ip = ? and svr_port = ? and ctx_name = 'STORAGE_SHORT_TERM_META_CTX_ID'</code></li><li>Statement for querying the memory usage of the sys500 tenant: <code>select /*+ MONITOR_AGENT READ_CONSISTENCY(WEAK) */ sum(hold) as hold from __all_virtual_memory_info where tenant_id = 500 and svr_ip = ? and svr_port = ? and mod_name <> 'OB_KVSTORE_CACHE_MB'</code></li></ul> |
| Collected metric | <ul><li>ob_tenant500_storage_short_meta_memory_hold_bytes</li><li> ob_tenant500_memory_hold_bytes</li></ul> |
| Metric expression | <ul><li>tenant500_storage_short_meta_hold_percentage: <code>100 * (sum(ob_tenant500_storage_short_meta_memory_hold_bytes{}) by (ob_cluster_name,ob_cluster_id,svr_ip) / sum(ob_tenant500_memory_hold_bytes{}) by (ob_cluster_name,ob_cluster_id,svr_ip))</code></li><li>tenant500_storage_short_meta_hold_gb:<code>sum(ob_tenant500_storage_short_meta_memory_hold_bytes{}) by (ob_cluster_name,ob_cluster_id,svr_ip) / 1073741824</code></li></ul> |
| Collection cycle | 60 seconds |

## Alert rule

| Metric expression | Metric description | Default threshold | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| tenant500_storage_short_meta_hold_percentage > 30 and tenant500_storage_short_meta_hold_gb > 0 | The memory usage of the STORAGE_SHORT_TERM module of the sys500 tenant | 30 | 10 seconds | 5 minutes |

## Alert information

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Metric expression | Critical | Host |

## Alert templates

* Overview

   * Template: ${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}
   * Example: alarm_template_id=0:ob_cluster=TEST-1:host=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx. The memory usage of the STORAGE_SHORT_TERM module of the sys500 tenant is high.

* Details

   * Template: Cluster: ${ob_cluster_name}. Host: ${host}. Alert: ${alarm_name} The memory usage (percentage: ${tenant500_storage_short_meta_hold_percentage_value_zh_cn}, size: ${tenant500_storage_short_meta_hold_gb_value_zh_cn}) of the ORAGE_SHORT_TERM_META_CTX_ID module exceeds ${tenant500_storage_short_meta_hold_percentage_alarm_threshold} %. 
   * Example: Cluster: TEST. Host: xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx. Alert: The memory usage of the STORAGE_SHORT_TERM module of the sys500 tenant is high. The memory usage (percentage: 35%, size: 3.5 GB) of the ORAGE_SHORT_TERM_META_CTX_ID module exceeds 30 %. 

## Impact on the system

Table Store is a fixed-length array. When the number of tables exceeds the threshold 56, new SSTables cannot be added to the array. As a result, minor compactions cannot be performed. 

## Possible causes

* Too many partitions exist on a single server. 

   ```sql
   select count(*) from __all_virtual_table_mgr where svr_ip=? and table_type !=0;
   ```

* Too many SSTables exist in partition replicas. Possible causes are described as follows:

   * The value of the undo_retention parameter is too large, which results in too many SSTables on a single node. 
   * Indexes are not properly created. You can use the `index_status !=2` condition to filter incomplete indexes  and then drop unimportant indexes. 

      ```sql
      select * from __all_virtual_table where data_table_id =? and index_status != 2
      ```

      For information about index-related alerts, see [ob_cluster_exists_index_fail_table](500.ob_cluster_exists_index_fail_table.md). 

   * Multiple versions of data are retained for index creation. 

      ```sql
      select * from __all_acquired_snapshot; 
      ```

   * When the value of the undo_retention parameter is not 0, a large amount of multi-version data is stored, and SSTables may not be recycled in time. 

      Run the `show variables like 'undo_retention'` command in the specified tenant to query the time period, in seconds, within which the multi-version data of the tenant are retained . 

   * Major compactions are frequently performed. 

      A major compaction triggers a minor compaction to store major_freeze_ts data. Therefore, each time a major compaction is triggered, at least one mini SSTable is generated. Check the frozen_version and last_merged_version parameters in the __all_zone table. If the value difference is great, major compactions are frequently performed. Each major compaction triggers a forced freeze to generate a mini SSTable. If too many major compaction versions are not executed, a large number of mini SSTables are generated and may exhaust the memory of Table Store. 

   * Frequent data writes cause frequent minor compactions, which exceeds the array size limit. 

      You can query the __all_virtual_table_mgr table to view the types of SSTables in Table Store. If minor compactions are frequently performed, mini SSTables contain a large amount of data, and table_size is not 0. 

      Query the internal table to check whether a large number of MINOR DAGs exist: `select * from __all_virtual_dag_scheduler where tenant_id =?`

      Search the observer.log  file with the `dump_dag_status` keyword to get the number of MINOR DAGs at that time. 

      If a large number of MINOR DAGs exist, we recommend that you temporarily increase the number of MINOR threads by specifying the following parameters:. 

      * In [OceanBase Database V4.x], adjust the value of `compaction_mid_thread_score`. The default value is 0, which corresponds to 6 background threads. 
      * In [OceanBase Database V2.x and V3.x], adjust the value of `minor_merge_concurrency`. The default value is 0, which corresponds to 10 background threads. 

   * The value of `gc_snapshot_version` fails to increase. 

      Search for "too old" and "update info commit" in the log. If the value of `gc_snapshot_version` fails to increase, so does that of `multi_version_start` As a result, SSTables cannot be recycled. 

   * The value of `minor_compact_trigger` is so large that the MINOR MERGE task cannot be executed in time. 

      ```sql
      show parameters like "minor_compact%";
      ```

      `minor_compact_trigger` specifies the number of mini SSTables within the latest freeze_info range that triggers a MINOR MERGE task to merge multiple mini SSTables into a minor SSTable. If the value of `minor_compact_trigger` is too large, the MINOR MERGE task is not triggered in time. 

      You can reduce the number of mini SSTables by using the following methods:

      1. Perform a MINOR MERGE task to merge multiple mini SSTables within the latest freeze_info range into a minor SSTable. In OceanBase Database of versions later than V3.1, you can perform HISTORY MINOR MERGE tasks to merge multiple mini SSTables in a historical freeze_info range into a minor SSTable. 
      2. Perform a major compaction to recycle mini SSTables. 

      Before you perform a major compaction, a remove_old_table operation is triggered to recycle multi-version data that is no longer needed. 

   * Query for running MINOR MERGE tasks. 

      ```SQL
      select * from __all_virtual_sys_task_status;
      ```

      Check the start time in the trace of the MINOR MERGE task of the corresponding partition, if the task runs for a long period, log on to the corresponding server and check whether the task is stuck. 

      Check the specified number of mini SSTables that triggers a MINOR MERGE task. The default value is 2. If a large number is specified, a MINOR MERGE task cannot be triggered in time when a large amount of data is imported. As a result, the number of SSTables cannot quickly decrease.

      ```SQL
      show parameters like "minor_compact_trigger";
      ```

## Suggested solutions

1. If you use OceanBase Database V3.2.0 or later, query the __all_virtual_compaction_diagnose_info table table. 
2. The number of retained major SSTables is specified by `max_kept_major_version_number`. The default value is 2. This means that if you set `undo_retention`  to 0 or no multi-version data is retained for index creation, only two major SSTables are retained by default. The query statement is as follows:

   ```SQL
   show parameters like "max_kept_major_version_number";
   ```
