# agent_process_count_abnormal

## Description

OCP-Agent runs with the following three processes: ocp_agentd, ocp_mgragent, and ocp_monagent. This alert is triggered when the number of any of the processes is greater than 1 for more than 60s. The specific process name is displayed in the alert details. 

## Principle

| Parameter | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Metric | agent_process_count |
| Source | OCP-Agent |
| Collected metric | process_count |
| Metric expression | max(process_count{name=~"ocp_mgragent | ocp_monagent | ocp_agentd",@LABELS}) by (@GBLABELS) |
| Collection cycle | 5 seconds |

## Alert rule

| Metric expression | Metric description | Default threshold | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| agent_process_count | The number of OCP-Agent processes is abnormal. | 1 | 20 seconds | 5 minutes |

## Alert information

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Metric expression | Warning | OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) nodes |

## Alert templates

* Overview

   * Template: ${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}
   * Example: alarm_template_id=0:host=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:name=ocp_mgragent. The number of processes is abnormal. 

* Details

   * Template: Cluster: ${ob_cluster_name}. Server: ${host}. Process: ${name}. Number of processes: ${value}. 
   * Example: Cluster: TEST. Server: xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx. Process: ocp_mgragent. Number of processes: 2. 

## Impact on the system

This alert indicates that the cluster has a residual OCP-Agent process. OCP-Agent processes are configured with SO_REUSEADDR, allowing the port to be reused.
When multiple OCP-Agent processes provide the same API, the API behavior may vary with the version, resulting in unexpected results. 

## Possible causes

1. OCP-Agent processes are not fully cleaned up during uninstallation. 
2. OCP-Agent processes are not fully cleaned up during re-installation. 
3. You have operated OCP-Agent by using a CLI tool. 

## Suggested solutions

View the IDs of OCP-Agent processes on the GUI of the OCP console, and terminate the OCP-Agent processes that will no longer be used in a CLI tool. Run the `kill {pid}` command. 
