# Overview

This topic describes how to use and manage tags in OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP).

## Background information

You can use tags to facilitate organization, classification, quick search, quick filtering, task management, project management, and teamwork and sharing in a flexible and efficient manner.

OCP allows you to tag five types of objects: OceanBase clusters, arbitration services, tenants, OBProxy clusters, and hosts. You can also create, edit, delete, and modify objects bound to tags.

OCP supports level-1 tags where the value is the key (such as `production environment`) and level-2 tags in the format of `Key:Value` (such as `environment:production`, `environment:test`, and `environment:staging`). You can select a proper tag display format based on your business conditions. On an object page, such as the page of OceanBase clusters, you can tag clusters and filter clusters by tag to organize, search for, and manage cluster objects, thereby improving the working efficiency.

## Usage process

You can create a tag for resource objects and use the tag as follows:

1. [Create a tag](200.create-a-tag.md).

   You can extract a keyword based on the characteristics of the content and attributes of the resource objects, and create a tag to summarize the information.

2. [Modify objects bound to the tag](300.change-bound-objects.md).

   After you create a tag, you can bind resource objects to the tag. After the binding, the tag is attached to the bound resource objects so that you can conveniently classify, search for, and manage the resource objects based on the tag.

3. Manage the tag.

   You can [edit the tag](400.edit-a-tag.md) or [delete the tag](500.delete-a-tags.md).

## Manage tags

OCP provides 10 entries for you to manage tags from different dimensions:

* Entry 1:

   Log on to the OCP console, go to the **Cluster Overview** page, and manage tags in the **Clusters** list.

* Entry 2:

   Log on to the OCP console, go to the **Overview** page of a cluster, and manage tags in the **Basic Information** section of the cluster.

* Entry 3:

   Log on to the OCP console, choose **Clusters > Tenant Management**, and manage tags on the **Tenants** tab.

* Entry 4:

   Log on to the OCP console, go to the **Tenant Overview** page, and manage tags in the **Tenants** list.

* Entry 5:

   Log on to the OCP console, go to the Overview page of a tenant, and manage tags in the **Basic Information** section of the tenant.

* Entry 6:

   Log on to the OCP console, go to the **OBProxy** page, and manage tags in the **Clusters** list.

* Entry 7:

   Log on to the OCP console, go to the **Overview** page of an OBProxy cluster, and manage tags in the **Basic Information** section of the OBProxy cluster.

* Entry 8:

   Log on to the OCP console, go to the **Host Overview** page, and manage tags in the **Hosts** list.

* Entry 9:

   Log on to the OCP console, go to the **Overview** page of a host, and manage tags in the **Details** section on the **Basic Information** tab.

* Entry 10:

   Log on to the OCP console, choose **System Management > Tag Management**, and manage tags on the **Tags** tab.
