# View a binlog instance

A binlog instance is a tenant-level instance responsible for generating and sending binlogs, and for monitoring and processing SQL requests through TCP based on the MySQL protocol. On the **Overview** page of a binlog instance, you can view its basic information and subscription connection information, and perform basic O&M operations on the binlog instance.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Applicability</h4>
<p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Enterprise Edition. OCP Community Edition does not support this feature. </p>
</main>

## View the basic information of a binlog instance

In the **Binlog Instance Overview** section, you can view basic instance information in the following fields: **Binlog Instance Name**, **Business Cluster**, **Business Tenant**, **Status**, **Version No.**, **Created Time**, **Subscription Connections**, **Connected OBProxy Clusters**, and **Binlog File Generation Directory**.

* You can click the cluster name next to **Business Cluster** to go to the overview page of the business cluster.

* You can click the tenant name next to **Business Tenant** to go to the overview page of the business tenant.

* You can click the cluster name next to **Connected OBProxy Cluster** to go to the overview page of the OBProxy cluster.

## View the subscription connection list

In the **Subscription Connection List** section, you can view the subscription connection information about a binlog instance in the following columns: **Username**, **Client IP**, **Port**, **Sending Point**, **Sending Delay (ms)**, **Associate RPS**, and **Network Traffic**.

* You can click the plus sign (**+**) on the left of the username to view the real-time monitoring charts of **Sending Delay**, **Associate RPS**, and **Network Traffic**.

* You can select **Last 5 Minutes**, **Last 10 Minutes**, **Last 20 Minutes**, **Last 30 Minutes**, **Last 1 Hour**, **Last 3 Hours**, **Last 6 Hours**, **Last 12 Hours**, **Last 24 Hours**, or **Last 7 Days** from the **Monitoring time range** drop-down list to view monitoring data of the selected statistical period. You can also select **Custom Time** from the drop-down list and specify the start time and end time as needed. By default, the monitoring data of the last 5 minutes is displayed.

## Manage binlog instances

In the **Binlog Instance** section, you can perform basic O&M operations on binlog instances. For more information, see [Configure throttling](150.configure-throttling.md), [Start and stop a binlog instance](200.start-and-stop-a-binlog-instance.md), [Restart a binlog instance](300.restart-a-binlog-instance.md), [View subscription connection monitoring charts](../../../880.manage-performance-monitoring/100.performance-monitoring-overview/630.view-subscription-connection-of-binlog.md), [View performance monitoring data of a binlog instance](../../../880.manage-performance-monitoring/100.performance-monitoring-overview/650.view-performance-monitoring-of-binlog.md), [View resource monitoring data of a binlog instance](../../../880.manage-performance-monitoring/100.performance-monitoring-overview/670.view-resource-monitoring-of-binlog.md), and [Manage binlog instance parameters](500.manage-a-binlog-instance-parameters.md).

## Switch between binlog instances

To view the information about another binlog instance in the same binlog cluster, click the name of the instance in the upper-left corner of the **Binlog Instance Overview** page to switch to its overview page.
