# Configure throttling

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Applicability</h4>
<p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Enterprise Edition. OCP Community Edition does not support this feature. </p>
</main>

When a binlog instance handles a large amount of conversion and subscription data, it uses more resources such as the bandwidth, CPU, and memory, thereby compromising service stability. In this case, you can configure throttling for the binlog instance.

In OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP), you can configure throttling for a binlog instance by using either of the following methods:

* **Method 1**: Go to the **Binlog Cluster Overview** page, find the target binlog instance in the **Binlog Instance List** section, click **More** in the **Actions** column, and select **Configure Throttling**.
* **Method 2**: Go to the **Binlog Instance Overview** page, and click **Configure Throttling** in the upper-right corner.

## Prerequisites

You have the permissions of the ADMIN user.

## Procedure

The following procedure describes how to configure throttling for a binlog instance by using **Method 2**.

1. Log on to the OCP console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Binlog Service**. The **Clusters** page automatically appears.

3. On the **Clusters** page, find the target binlog cluster and click its name to go to the **Binlog Cluster Overview** page.

4. In the **Binlog Instance List** section, find the binlog instance for throttling configuration and click its name.

5. On the **Binlog Instance Overview** page, and click **Configure Throttling** in the upper-right corner.

6. In the dialog box that appears, configure throttling parameters and click **OK**.

   You can configure the following four throttling parameters for a binlog instance: **Conversion Traffic (MiB/s)**, **Subscription Traffic (MiB/s)**, **Conversion RPS**, and **Subscription RPS**. If any of the parameters is set to 0, the corresponding item is not throttled.
