# Start and stop a binlog instance

The following table describes how to start and stop a binlog instance as needed. Stopping a binlog instance will affect its operations and related subscription tasks. Proceed with caution.

In OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP), you can start or stop a binlog instance by using either of the following methods:

* **Method 1**: Go to the **Binlog Cluster Overview** page, find the target binlog instance in the **Binlog Instance List** section, click **More** in the **Actions** column, and select **Stop Binlog Instance** or **Start Binlog Instance**.
* **Method 2**: Go to the **Binlog Instance Overview** page, click the **More** icon in the upper-right corner and select **Stop Binlog Instance** or **Start Binlog Instance**.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Applicability</h4>
<p>This topic applies only to OCP Enterprise Edition. OCP Community Edition does not support this feature. </p>
</main>

## Prerequisites

* You have the permissions of the ADMIN user.
* The binlog instance to be stopped is in the **Running** state.
* The binlog instance to be started is in the **Stopped** state.

## Procedure

The following procedure describes how to stop and then start a binlog instance by using **Method 2**.

1. Log on to the OCP console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Binlog Service**. The **Cluster List** tab automatically appears.

3. On the **Cluster List** page, find the target binlog cluster and click its name to go to the **Binlog Cluster Overview** page.

4. On the **Cluster List** page, find the binlog instance to be stopped and click its name.

5. On the **Binlog Instance Overview** page, click the **More** icon in the upper-right corner and select **Stop Binlog Instance**.

6. In the dialog box that appears, enter **stop** and click **OK**.

   You can view the task progress in **Task Center**. When the task status changes to **ExecuteSuccessful** and the status of the instance changes to **Stopped**, the instance is successfully stopped.

7. Start the instance.

   After the instance is stopped, you can click the **More** icon in the upper-right corner of the **Binlog Instance Overview** page and select **Start Binlog Instance** to start the instance.
